In the last lecture, we added the body of our email right here.
But that's not how we build real applications, because in a real applicaton
the body of an email can be several lines of text, you don't want to write all that
text here. Quite often you put that text in a separate file as
a template. And we use html to build that template.
html is the language of the web, that's the language we use to build web pages.
We use it to present content, so if you're not familiar with html,
don't worry there are plenty of tutorials online, you can learn it on your own. Just
follow along with me and see how we can create templates in python.
So, in a project folder, I'm going to add a new folder,
and call it template, .html. Now in a
real application, we often have different templates for different scenarios, such
as when a user signs up or attempts to reset their password but places in the
word order, these are different scenarios. So we need different templates for these scenarios.
And we should name our template files based on those scenarios.
In this demo I'm just going to go with a simple name like template.html.
Now let me show you a cool technique to quickly
generate some html code. We type an exclamation mark,
and press tab, so now we have a basic html,
template, when sending emails, we don't need anything in the
head section, so let's delete this, in the body
I'm going to type something like this, hi user, this is our test
email. Now what if you want to dynamically replace this with
the recipient. So let's define a parameter that we can replace later.
To define a parameter, we start with a dollar sign and then
give that parameter a name. For example name, now let's
save the changes, beautiful. Back to our app.pi
here on the top from the string
module, we need to import the template class,
we use this class to replace these paramours in the
template string. Let me show you how that works. So back to
app.pi. Let's create
the template object, here we need to pass our template as a string,
so I'm going to create a path object
to load template.html, here we
call read text this returns the entire
content of this file as a string. Now we have a template object,
this template object has a method called
substitute. With this method we can replace
parameters dynamically. Let me show you how that works. So,
let's delete this line. Where we're attaching,
the body of this message, instead of
hard coding this body here,
let's call template.subsitute,
now here we can pass a dictionary that contains two key
value pairs or parameters of template, or we can pass keyword
now to make this code a little bit cleaner, let me put this on a separate line,
so let's call this here, pass
a dictionary, in this dictionary we should have a key called
name and lets set that to John.
This substitute method will return a string. So let's call that
body and then we pass it here and
finally we change plain to html.
Save the changes run the program,
ok, beautiful, and, here's our new
email message, hi John this is our test email. Now this email
message is pretty simple it doesn't use any of the features of html,
so let's go back to our template, and make the name of the user
bold. So here in our template file, I'm going to
add a string tag around the name
parameter, this will make the name of the user (?).
Save the changes. back to app.py let's run the
application one more time. Okay, now,
here we get a new email, and as you can see the name of the user
is bold. So this is the benefit of using html over
plain text. Now back to this substitute method, as I
told you, we can pass a dictionary, so you might have dictionary that includes all
the values that you want to replace dynamically, if that's the case, pass
a dictionary object here. Alternatively you can pass keyword arguments.
So instead of passing dictionary we can pass
keyword argument name = John, exactly the same.
So this is all about templates in python.